
Name of the HTML5 course (2012H1) team: Team9

Team leader: Kai Sjöblom

List of GitHub accounts (and account owner names):
miksu  (Mikael Koponen),
smulis (Samuli Suortti),
kaitsu (Kai Sjöblom)

Description of the web application:

This web application is a service promarly aimed for car travellers.
First target area is the Espoo city in Finland but it could be
expanded to cover the whole country without changing the web services
used. The application architecture is to be made to support later
scalability to other traveller service types too and the map
usage will be performance engineered to suit hand held devices.

Initially planned key use cases:
1. Retrieving real time traffic information from server from
   nearhood or a desired map area (speed, road photos, traffic disturbances).
2. Retrieving journey weather forecast information from web
   (road temperature etc.).
3. Retrieving information of relevant car traveller's services.
   (e.g. gas stations, hotels, cafes).
4. In addition to a map view, the above information can also
   be shown in a list view (containing e.g. hotel addresses and contact data,
   with further web links).


List of initially planned technologies and APIs:

Client: jQuery, Backbone.js, Handlebars.js, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5 in general
Server: Sinatra as RESTful communication proxy
APIs:   Google Maps API - https://developers.google.com/maps/
        (or Bing/Nokia Maps APIs), Digitraffic API -
        http://www.infotripla.fi/digitraffic/utilise.html

Target devices:
a) Nokia Lumia 800 (Windows Phone OS), or if an API check on w12 so indicates, then
b) Samsung Galaxy Nexus (Android OS)

How it fulfills the assignment criteria:
1. HTML5 key APIs
- Offline storage for last used used view type (map/list),
  last location coordinates, etc.
2. Mobile device features
- Retrieval of the geolocation of the hand held device.
3. Client / server communication
- RESTful communication for retrieving road traffic related information and
  local traveller services of interest especially to car travellers.


Initial work roles (later contributions to other areas are possible too):

Kai
- creating specs for the application
- main contact person
- API-architecture
Mikael
- building the scaffolding for the application
- designing a unified development environment for different platforms (OS X and Windows)
- production environment and hosting
Samuli
- UI interactions
- Mobile optimization
- Google Maps Integration
